# Image Cryptograpghy based on Chaos Maps
### Chaos Maps
Chaos-based image encryption, commonly known as a chaotic system, is an approach to encrypting an image that involves chaotic maps, which are rows of random numbers generated by a mathematical calculation with certain initial values.

Chaotic systems are a simple sub-type of nonlinear dynamical systems. They may contain very few interacting parts and these may follow very simple rules, but these systems all have a very sensitive dependence on their initial conditions. Despite their deterministic simplicity, over time these systems can produce totally unpredictable and wildly divergent (aka, chaotic) behavior.

#### Arnold Cat Map
 - Arnold's Cat Map is a chaotic map often used for pixel manipulation. It randomizes the pixel positions in an image by stretching and folding the image. When an optimal number of iterations of the transformation is applied on the image, the resulting image becomes incomprehensible and hence encrypted.

- For this implementation the transform applied on the image is:
      
      R( [x,y] ) = [ (x + y) mod n, (x + 2y) mod n ] 
- Here n is the dimensions of the image. When the transformation is repeated enough times, the original image will reappear.

#### Henon Map
- The Hénon map, is a discrete-time dynamical system. It is one of the most studied examples of dynamical systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. The Hénon map takes a point (xn, yn) in the plane and maps it to a new point.
- Given initial conditions (x0,y0), a henon map is given by the following equations:
  
      (Xn+1) = (Yn) + 1 − a.(Xn)
      (Yn+1) = b * (Xn)
- The map depends on two parameters, a and b, which for the classical Hénon map have values of a = 1.4 and b = 0.3. For the classical values the Hénon map is chaotic. For other values of a and b the map may be chaotic, intermittent, or converge to a periodic orbit.

### Note: 
- You can copy either the code and run separately or use the github link to be open the same in google colab.
- You can either download the .ipynb extension file and open in any software such as google colab, jupyter notebook, etc.
